



Masque Working Group                                            M. Ihlar
Internet-Draft                                               Ericsson AB
Intended status: Informational                           24 October 2022
Expires: 27 April 2023


             A Sequence Number Extension for HTTP Datagrams
               draft-ihlar-masque-datagram-numbers-latest

Abstract

   This document defines a sequence number extension to HTTP datagrams
   used to carry proxied UDP payload or IP datagrams.  This extension is
   useful when HTTP datagrams are transported on top of a multipath
   protocol that does not ensure in-order delivery as it allows a masque
   endpoint to implement reordering logic specific to its needs.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://example.com/LATEST.  Status information for this document may
   be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ihlar-masque-
   datagram-numbers/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the WG Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:WG@example.com), which is archived at
   https://example.com/WG.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/USER/REPO.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 27 April 2023.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Sequence Number Datagram Extension
     3.1.  Registration
     3.2.  Datagram Format
   4.  Security Considerations
   5.  IANA Considerations
   6.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   This document defines a sequence number extension to HTTP datagrams.
   Sequence numbers at the HTTP datagram layer allows a receiving
   endpoint to implement arbitrary reordering logic, which can be useful
   when proxied datagrams are sent over multiple paths simultaneously,
   e.g. using the multipath QUIC extension.  The extension applies to
   HTTP datagarms when they are used with the extended CONNECT method
   and the protocols are either connect-ip or connect-udp.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Sequence Number Datagram Extension

   The Sequence Number datagram extension prepends sequence numbers to
   HTTP datagrams.  Datagram sequence numbers are unsigned integers
   initiated to 0 and are incremented by 1 for every transmitted HTTP
   datagram, except for when the integer overflows and is reset to 0.
   The extension can be used with the HTTP CONNECT method when the
   :protocol pseudo header is equal to "connect-udp" or "connect-ip".

3.1.  Registration

   Endpoints indicate support for Sequence Number Datagram type by
   including the boolean-valued Item Structured Field "DG-Sequence: ?1"
   in the HTTP Request and Response headers.

   A new datagram sequence is registered by sending a
   REGISTER_SEQUENCE_CONTEXT capsule.

   REGISTER_SEQUENCE_CONTEXT Capsule {
     Type (i) = REGISTER_SEQUENCE_CONTEXT,
     Length (i),
     Context ID (i),
     Payload Context ID (i),
     Representation (8)
   }

   The capsule has the following fields:

   Context ID: Identifies a sequence number context.

   Payload Context ID: Identifies the type of payload that follows a
   sequence number.  The value MUST be equal to a previously registered
   Context ID.

   Representation: The size in bits of the unsigned interger used to
   encode the sequence number, the value MUST be one of the following:
   8, 16, 32 or 64.

   It is possible to use multiple contexts for a single sequence, this
   is needed if multiple datagram payload formats are used in parallel.
   To add a context to an existing sequence an endpoint sends an
   ADD_SEQUENCE_CONTEXT Capsule.  The capsule has the following format:

   ADD_SEQUENCE_CONTEXT Capsule {
     Type (i) = ADD_SEQUENCE_CONTEXT,
     Length (i),
     Sequence Context ID (i),
     Context ID (i),
     Payload Context ID (i)
   }

   The capsule has the following fields:

   Sequence Context: Identifies the original sequence number context.

   Context ID: A new context identifier that refers to the same sequence
   identified by the Sequence Context ID.

   Payload Context ID: Identifies the type of payload that follows a
   sequence number.  The value MUST be equal to a previously registered
   Context ID.

3.2.  Datagram Format

   A Sequence Number Datagrams has the following format:

   Sequence Number Datagram {
     Context ID (i),
     Sequence Number (8..64),
     Payload (..)
   }

   Context ID: This value indicates that the datagram contains a
   sequence number and the format of the data that follows the sequence
   number.

   Sequence Number: Unsigned integer of size specified in registration,
   indicates the transmission order of the datagagram.

   Payload: Datagram payload.

4.  Security Considerations

   Although the usage of the sequence number are not defined by this
   specification there are an underlying assumption that the sequence
   numbers are assigned in transmission order of HTTP datagram sent in
   the context of this HTTP request.  Any attacker that can break that
   assumption will thus impact any node using the included sequence
   number.  By altering the sequence number in HTTP datagrams the
   attacker can impact a user of the sequence number extension for the
   purpose of performing reordering, forcing it to buffer datagrams for
   several negative purposes:

   *  Resource exhaustion attack by maximizing the amount of data
      buffered in each HTTP request context

   *  Introducing reordering, jitter and additional delay in the path
      properties for these datagram

   *  Cause the sequence number using node to drop some HTTP Datagrams
      by causing them to be so far reordered that some policy in the
      receiving node drops the datagram.

   A malicious endpoint is more likely to mount a resource exhaustion
   attack, while HTTP intermediares could be used by an third party
   attacker to impact the HTTP datagram flow between a source and a
   destination.

   A HTTP Datagram sequnce number user that buffer datagrams should
   ensure that they have protection against resource exhaustion attacks
   by having some limits on the buffer size to limit such attacks.

5.  IANA Considerations

   HTTP Header

   Capsule

6.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Marcus Ihlar
   Ericsson AB
   Email: marcus.ihlar@ericsson.com
